Add a document describing how to triage CI test failures (#68682)
dotnet/runtime: docs/workflow/ci/triaging-failures.md

On non-Windows platforms, you'll see a similar output for the test configuration. E.g.,

```
+ printenv
+ grep COMPlus
COMPlus_TieredCompilation=1
COMPlus_JitStress=1
COMPlus_DbgMiniDumpName=/home/helixbot/dotnetbuild/dumps/coredump.%d.dmp
COMPlus_DbgEnableMiniDump=1
```

## Product and test assets

To reproduce and/or debug a test failure, you'll need the product and test assets. You can either build these using the normal build processes,
or you can download the ones used by the CI system. Building your own is often preferable so you can build a Debug flavor for better
debugging fidelity: the CI typically runs with Checked and sometimes Release components.

If downloading assets from the CI, it's often easiest to use the `runfo` tool:
- [runfo Website](https://runfo.azurewebsites.net)
- [runfo Documentation](https://github.com/jaredpar/runfo/tree/master/runfo#runfo)

To install `runfo` as a .NET CLI global tool:

```sh
dotnet tool install --global runfo
dotnet tool update --global runfo
```

Then use the `runfo get-helix-payload` command.

Note that if a test fails and produces a core (crash) dump, the Azure DevOps "Artifacts" page will include a link to

> the crash dump as well as a `how-to-debug-dump.md` file that describes using `runfo` to download the assets and other

Reviewer: it would be good to make it work for clr tests too, of course. there's nothing libraries specific about it.

> the crash dump as well as a `how-to-debug-dump.md` file that describes using `runfo` to download the assets and other

Reviewer 2: I've been meaning to hook it up along with a couple of other nice tricks.

    File: /__w/1/s/src/coreclr/jit/gentree.cpp Line: 17913
    Image: /root/helix/work/correlation/dotnet
```

Note, in particular, the `File:` line includes the path `src/coreclr/jit`.

### Repro without JIT stress modes

For other failures, first attempt to reproduce as it failed in the CI, with the same configuration settings. For intermittent failures,
this might require running the test in a loop, applying artificial load to the machine, running on the exact architecture/OS/OS version/Docker container, etc.

Once the problem can be reproduced, attempt to reproduce the problem without setting any of the JIT stress variables, e.g., do not set:
- `COMPlus_TieredCompilation`
- `COMPlus_JitStress`
- `COMPlus_JitStressRegs`

If the test reliably fails with the JIT stress modes, but passes without, consider it a JIT issue.

### Intermittent test failures

> If it is difficult to reproduce an issue, a useful tool is to use [Kusto](https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/engsrvprod/databases/engineeringdata)

Reviewer: this DB is currently only accessible to Microsoft employees, unfortunately.  (not sure about runfo?)

> If it is difficult to reproduce an issue, a useful tool is to use [Kusto](https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/engsrvprod/databases/engineeringdata)

Reviewer: When a test fails in Jitstress, would it make sense to ask the opener to run and paste in the results of a canned Kusto query to see whether it's only failing in Jitstress? Then they could decide whether to send it to codegen team first or not. (Of course, it may well be a timing issue, but presumably this heuristic would be more accurate than always sending to the area owners first)

> If it is difficult to reproduce an issue, a useful tool is to use [Kusto](https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/engsrvprod/databases/engineeringdata)

Reviewer: It might be interesting to do a hand sampling of the last 20-50 bugs marked jit stress to see what proportion were actually test issues (not codegen team issues), and of those how many were only failing in jitstress. That could help us tune our process so they go to the right team first.

> If it is difficult to reproduce an issue, a useful tool is to use [Kusto](https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/engsrvprod/databases/engineeringdata)

Reviewer 2: Yes, this is what I tend to use to first rule it out. No need to tag jit stress if it reproduces obviously outside the range (I say a significant portion because one or two failures outside usually hints at other issues like a run with something more systemic and less likely to be the test itself).

# Triaging CI test failures

This document describes some things to consider when investigating a test failure in the dotnet/runtime continuous integration (CI) system.
The focus is on reproducing the test failure and identifying the proper owner for a failure. Specific guidance is given on how to handle
stress mode test configuration failures, such as failures in a JIT stress test run.

## Area ownership

One goal of failure investigation is to quickly route failures to the correct area owner. The ownership of various product areas
is detailed [here](../../area-owners.md). The GitHub auto-tagging bot uses the ownership information
in the file [fabricbot.json](../../../.github/fabricbot.json).

## Platform configuration

First, identify the platform the test was run on:
1. The processor architecture (x86, x64, arm32, arm64)
2. The operating system (Windows, Linux, macOS). In some cases, you might need to reproduce a failure under a specific operating system

> version, such as a "musl" version of Linux (e.g., Alpine). You might need to reproduce using the same environment used by the CI system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
version: for example, a failure might be specific to Alpine, which uses a different C runtime than most distros. You might need to reproduce using the same environment used by the CI system.
```

COMPlus_DbgEnableMiniDump=1
```

You might need to set variables in addition to the `COMPlus_*` (equivalently, `DOTNET_*`) variables. For example, you might see:
```
set RunCrossGen2=1 
```
which instructs the coreclr test wrapper script to do crossgen2 compilation of the test.

Similarly,
```
set RunningIlasmRoundTrip=1
```
triggers an ildasm/ilasm round-trip test (that is, the test assembly is disassembled, then re-assembled, then run).

And,
```
set DoLink=1
```
triggers ILLink testing.

## Product and test assets

To reproduce and/or debug a test failure, you'll need the product and test assets. You can either build these using the normal build processes,
or you can download the ones used by the CI system. Building your own is often preferable so you can build a Debug flavor for better
debugging fidelity: the CI typically runs with Checked and sometimes Release components.

If downloading assets from the CI, it's often easiest to use the `runfo` tool:
- [runfo Website](https://runfo.azurewebsites.net)
- [runfo Documentation](https://github.com/jaredpar/runfo/tree/master/runfo#runfo)

To install `runfo` as a .NET CLI global tool:

```sh

> dotnet tool install --global runfo

Reviewer: Seems to me that if I do "dotnet tool install" and it's already installed, it ought to implicitly do "dotnet tool update". But, given it doesn't, it's good to have both here, so that even folks with it already installed get an update.a

dotnet tool update --global runfo
```

> Then use the `runfo get-helix-payload` command with the job name and workitem name. You can get these from the `Debug` tab of the

Reviewer: worth mentioning that it's also in the top line of the console log? At least, the job ID and work item ID are. But apparently runfo requires the work item name, not ID? ID is a guid.
